III.
Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor
of Judea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea,
and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanius the tetrarch of Abilene, Anas and Caiaphas
being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.
And he came into all the country about Jordan preaching the baptism of repentance for the
remission of sins.
As it is written in the book of the words of
Isaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness,
Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low,
And the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth,
And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him,
O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves,
We have Abraham to our father, for I say unto you that God is able of these stones
To raise up children unto Abraham.
And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees,
Every tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down,
And cast into the fire.
And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?
He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him
That hath none, and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.
Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him,
Master, what shall we do?
And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which has appointed you.
And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do?
And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely,
And be content with your wages.
And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John
Whether he were the Christ or not, John answered, saying unto them all,
I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I cometh,
The latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose.
He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire,
Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor,
And will gather the wheat into his garner, but the chaff he will burn
With fire unquenchable.
And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people.
But Herod the Tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias,
His brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,
Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.
Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass that Jesus also,
Being baptized and praying, the heaven was opened,
And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him,
And a voice came from heaven which said,
Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased.
And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age,
Being, as was supposed, the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli,
Which was the son of Methat, which was the son of Levi,
Which was the son of Melchai, which was the son of Janna,
Which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Mountathias,
Which was the son of Amos, which was the son of Naum,
Which was the son of Ezli, which was the son of Negei,
Which was the son of Meath, which was the son of Mountithias,
which was the son of Simei which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Judah
which was the son of Joan which was the son of Risa which was the son of Zorah Babel
which was the son of Silatheal which was the son of neirai
which was the son of Melkai which was the son of Adai which was the son of Kosem
which was the son of Elmodam which was the son of Er
Which was the son of Josiah, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son
of Joram, which was the son of Mawthat, which was the son of Levi, which was the
son of Simeon, which was the son of Judah, which was the son of Joseph, which
was the son of Jonan, which was the son of Eliakim, which was the son of Malaeh,
which was the son of Menun, which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of
Nathan which was the son of David, which was the son of Jesse which was the son of Obed
which was the son of Boaz which was the son of Salmon which was the the son of Na Large
which was the son of Amenadab which was the son of Aram which was the son of Esraam which
was the son of Phares which was the son of Judah which was the Son of Jacob which was
son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which was the son of Thera, which
was the son of Nakor, which was the son of Saruk, which was the son of Raegaw,
which was the son of Phalech, which was the son of Heber, which was the son of
Salah, which was the son of Kainin, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the
of Sem, which was the son of Noah, which was the son of Lesmik, which was the son of Methuselah,
which was the son of Enoch, which was the son of Jared, which was the son of M container,
which was the son of Kaim That is, which was the son of Einus, which was the son of Seth,
which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.
4. And Jesus, being full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit
into the wilderness, being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat
nothing, and when they were ended he afterward hungered. And the devil said unto him, If
thou be the Son of God, command this stone, that it be made bread. And Jesus answered
him, saying, It is written, that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word
of God. And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, showed unto him all the
kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. And the devil said unto him, All this power
will I give thee, and the glory of them, for that is delivered unto me, and to whomsoever
I will I give it. If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine. And Jesus answered
and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the
Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. And he brought him to Jerusalem, and said
him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast
thyself down from hence. For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee
to keep thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy
foot against a stone. And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not
tempt the Lord thy God. And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from
him for a season. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee. And there
went out a fame of him through all the region round about, and he taught in their synagogues,
being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as his custom
was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up for to read. And there was
delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. And when he had opened the book, he
found the place where it was written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he
hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted,
to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at
liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed
the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that
were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, This day is
this scripture fulfilled in your ears. And all bare him witness, and wondered at the
gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's
son? And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal
thyself. Whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also hear in thy country. And he said,
Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you of a truth,
Many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years
and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land. But unto none of them was Elias
sent save unto Serepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow. And many lepers
were in Israel in the time of Elishaias the prophet. And none of them was cleansed, saving
Naaman the Syrian. And all they in the synagogue when they heard these things were filled
with wrath, and rose up and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of
the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. But he
passing through the midst of them went his way, and came down to Capernaum a city of
them on the Sabbath days. And they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was with power.
And in the synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an unclean devil, and cried
out with a loud voice, saying, Let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of
Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee, who thou art, the Holy One of God.
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And when the devil had
thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not. And they were all amazed
and spake among themselves, saying, What a word is this? For with authority and power
he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out. And the fame of him went out into
every place of the country round about. And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered
into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever, and they
besought him for her. And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and
immediately she arose and ministered unto them. Now when the sun was setting, all they
that had any sick with diverse diseases brought them unto him. And he laid his hands on every
one of them, and healed them. And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying,
Thou art Christ, the Son of God. And he rebuking them, suffered them not to speak, for they
knew that he was Christ. And when it was day, he departed, and went into a desert place.
And the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart
from them. And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also, for
therefore am I sent. And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.